---
layout: post
title: "Departure Update: Who Left?"
tags: ss14_departure ss14_departure_updates
---
{% include departure-update-lead.md %}

I've seen a lot of different responses shared about who exactly left and how many people. "Half the admin team" is the most common thing I've seen, and it is technically correct, but I've seen a few people say things like that it was just headmins burning out or that no one involved in anything other than the game server left.

Every headmin at the time left, and every headmin was a "Project Manager" for Space Wizard Federation. Space Wizard Federation is the organization that manages the upstream repository, the authentication servers, and the server hub. "Project Manager" is a role that isn't well defined, but was at the time the second highest role, second only to "Wizard". Generally, anyone doing anything official in relation to the hub or SS14 as a whole was a project manager. In addition, I was the "Operations Director" and Nairodian was the "Community Lead". These were both relatively new roles that were a bit better defined than Project Manager, but were essentially just titles in my experience. I was also a maintainer, but I had not been significantly active in that role for several months and never really held myself out as a maintainer.

Half of the admin team also left. The way "half" was counted was along the lines of every person with either the trialmin or game admin role in Discord being counted as an admin. Half of those people left, but I think it's important to be aware that several Project Managers and Wizards who have either never adminned, or were not active in adminning, also had one of those roles and were counted to get the total "admin team" size. In reality, I think if most people saw the list, they would say that most of the admin team left. Not included in the leave count are also the record number of admins who left in the approximately month prior.

Additionally, at least one maintainer other than myself left in response to the departure.

Wizard's Den has a new headmin now, and there are definitely still people on the admin team who have knowledge and experience, but most of the people still there are either almost entirely inactive or are relatively new to the admin team.
