---
layout: post
title: "I've been banned"
tags: ss14_departure ss14_departure_updates
---

{% include departure-update-lead.md %}

Today I was banned from the SS14 Discord server and the SS14 Forums. I don't know if there are more places I was banned from, but these two take away my access to the only official routes for me to get additional information or appeal.

Possibly related is [a now closed open letter](https://forum.spacestation14.com/t/an-open-letter-regarding-wizden-leadership/26477/57) where PJB says:
> I’m just going to close this thread. Everything that people have wanted to say has been said and some of the posts are basically just thinly veiled harassment.
>
> I’ve read it. I’m not going to say anything like “you’re right” or “you’re wrong” because frankly no matter what I say it will be met with more criticism.

-- PJB

I have not received any official communication about this ban despite it having occurred several hours ago, so I do not know if the "thinly veiled harassment" PJB references is about any of my posts, but I've had essentially no other recent public interactions with Wizard's Den. I can't imagine that replying to another user with the following is harassment:
> This is absolutely right. Trust built up through what you can see (essentially public actions) is the only way for someone on the outside to have any amount of confidence that the behind the scenes areas are being used with good intentions, and that the privacy they offer is not being abused.
> 
> To an extent, public actions show you what someone is like at their best. While a person’s behavior can have sometimes significant variance, few people act better as a whole in private than in public.

-- Chief_Engineer

My only other post in that thread is a link to [this post I wrote]({% post_url 2026-02-15-double-edged-sword-of-discretion %}). This post is also not harassment of any kind.

The post defends the keeping of certain information private and explains that there are cases where doing so would be appropriate. It criticizes hypothetical situations where a lack of transparency is used to allow people who commit offenses such as sexual harassment to be intentionally brought back into the community, and to allow people to mishandle staff complaints made against them. The post implies that there are other, less severe, forms of misuse, but doesn't discuss or detail them. If WizDen is not engaging in the specifically called out abuses of privacy, the post is in defense of WizDen's use of privacy. If WizDen is engaging in that sort of behavior, then the post is critical of Wizard's Den, but to call out the behaviors criticized in the post is not harassment, that sort of criticism would be closer to whistleblowing than anything else.

About a day ago, I received a passive agressive private message from PJB on the forums. I asked for clarification on what it was about, but never got a response.

Again, I wish that I could provide you with the official reason for the bans. I intend to provide an update once I receive more information on the reason.
